Introduction to DevOps

DevOps is a practice that unites software development (Dev) and IT operations (Ops) teams. By fostering collaboration and leveraging automation technologies, DevOps enables faster, more reliable code deployment to production in an efficient and repeatable manner.
It aims to shorten the software development lifecycle and improve the quality and reliability of software releases.

Delivery Pipeline :
The pipeline represents the different stages that software goes through before it is released to production. These stages might typically include:

Build: The stage where the software code is compiled and packaged into a deployable unit.
Test: The stage where the software is rigorously tested to ensure it functions as expected and identifies any bugs.
Release: The stage where the software is deployed to production for end users.

A feedback loop is a process in which the outputs of a system are circled back and used as inputs. In business, this refers to the process of using customer or employee feedback (the outputs of a service or product), to create a better product or workplace.

How DevOps Works?

DevOps will remove the isolated conditions between the development team and operations team. In many cases these two teams will work together for the entire application lifecycle, from development and test to deployment to operations, and develop a range of skills not limited to a single function. 

Waterfall vs Agile Development | Software Development Life Cycle Models

Waterfall Model
The waterfall model is a famous and good version of SDLC(System Development Life Cycle) for software engineering. The waterfall model is a linear and sequential model, which means that a development phase cannot begin until the previous phase is completed. We cannot overlap phases in the waterfall model.

Agile Model
Agile model is a combination of iterative and incremental models, that is, it is made up of iterative and incremental models.
In Agile model, the focus is given to process adaptability and customer satisfaction.

The Waterfall model is not dead. It is still used in software development process in which requirements are well-defined and where changes are not expected during project. But when requirements are not well-define and need quick adjustments during the project, then waterfall model cannot work and Agile model is preferred. 
Although Agile has not replaced Waterfall, it has become most preferred approach to most of the software development processes due to its extra advantages like flexibility, adaptability, transparency and responsiveness.

Other SDLC Models:

Lean methodology- Lean methodology aims to fully optimize your team's process and output through continuous improvements. It's a systematic approach to continuous process improvement through the elimination of waste. It originated in the manufacturing industry, specifically within Toyota, in the mid-20th century as part of the Toyota Production System (TPS), which sought to maximize value for the customer through the optimal use of resources. Example: Automotive Production System and Assembly Line Process.

Spiral- Spiral model enables project teams to build a highly customized product. Spiral methodology passes through four phases repeatedly until the project is finished: planning, risk analysis, engineering, and evaluation. It is focused on risk analysis, and with each iteration it focuses on mitigating potential risks. The model also emphasizes customer feedback, and as the prototype build is done in small increments, cost estimation becomes easier. Example: A project to develop a comprehensive city management system integrating traffic control, public transportation, emergency services, and utilities. Over such a long duration, requirements and technologies are bound to change, making the Spiral Model’s adaptability invaluable.

Iterative model- The Iterative model is all about repetition. Instead of starting out with a comprehensive overview of the requirements, development teams build the software piece by piece and identify further requirements as they go along. As a result, each new phase in the Iterative model produces a newer, more-refined version of the software under development. Example: Cooking, Learning.

V-model- The V-model is a type of SDLC model where the process executes sequentially in a V-shape. It is also known as the Verification and Validation model. It is based on the association of a testing phase for each corresponding development stage. The development of each step is directly associated with the testing phase. The next phase starts only after completion of the previous phase i.e., for each development activity, there is a testing activity corresponding to it. Example: used in safety, critical systems, such as aerospace and defence systems, because of its emphasis on thorough testing and its ability to clearly define the steps involved in the software development process.

DevOps- DevOps is used by some of the biggest companies out there, such as Atlassian. A hybrid of Agile and Lean, DevOps evolved from the growing need for collaboration between operations and development teams throughout the SDLC process. In DevOps, both developers and operations teams work together to accelerate and innovate the deployment and creation of software. There are small but frequent updates and DevOps encourages continuous feedback, process improvement and the automation of previously manual processes.




